Generative AI Enterprise blog (#1285)
huggingface/blog: gen_ai_enterprise.md

> The most recent generations of these models, such as ChatGPT and Bard, are called "generative" due to their ability to generate new content in an open-ended way: whereas previous models were restricted to the categories provided to them during training (think of a voice typing assistant, which is trained to transcribe what is being said out loud), generative models can create new content based on a query or prompt. These models are the ones that have been making waves in the last 6 months and causing a flurry of hype and discussion. These types of interaction-based models also have a final training step: after initially being trained on a large amount of text data, they are "instructed" by human workers, who interact with these systems for thousands or hours in order to make their outputs more realistic. This is a new approach to training AI models, called Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) which means that the outputs of AI models are ranked, evaluated and improved by human beings. This is what gives the systems such realistic output and makes it seem like they're actually capable of maintaining a realistic conversation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most recent generations of these models, such as ChatGPT and Bard, are called "generative" due to their ability to generate new content in an open-ended way: whereas previous models were restricted to the categories provided to them during training (think of a voice typing assistant, which is trained to transcribe what is being said out loud), generative models can create new content based on a query or prompt. These models are the ones that have been making waves in the last 6 months and causing a flurry of hype and discussion. These types of interaction-based models also have a final training step: after initially being trained on a large amount of text data, they are "instructed" by human workers, who interact with these systems for thousands or hours in order to make their outputs more realistic. This is a new approach to training AI models, called Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) which means that the outputs of AI models are ranked, evaluated and improved by human beings. This is what gives the systems such realistic output and makes it seem like they're actually capable of maintaining a realistic conversation.
```

> These recent models are also upending traditional AI models. [Armen Aghajanyan of Meta points](https://youtu.be/7Q7S0zmLxR8?t=2198) out how academia used to study Natural Language Processing (NLP) in various niche domains like semantic parsing, dialog, reasoning, question answer, reading comprehension, and summarization. Each of these domains used different techniques and models. However, the latest generative AI models, such as OpenAI's GPT-4, are providing state-of-the-art performance across multiple domains using one model. Armin suggests that this makes traditional Natural Language Processing methods obsolete. Practitioners are very enthusiastic about generative AI models, because now they can learn and use one model across a diverse set of tasks.

Reviewer: > Armin suggests that this makes traditional Natural Language Processing methods obsolete
I don't agree with this, and as a company we regularly advocate for the opposite view: smaller better more efficient models for more specific tasks is better approach for production systems. Maybe we can add a counterpoint?

Reviewer: This is addressed below so my comment is moot

## The Next Wave of Generative AI

While the current wave of Generative AI demonstrates the potential of this technology, we expect the second wave of generative AI to be transformational. Transformation happens when we don't plug generative AI models into existing use cases, but build use cases around Generative AI models. This will occur as teams mature in their understanding of generative AI along with better tooling for managing generative AI. While we can't identify those revolutionary use cases today, there are several likely components, which we describe below.

First, using generative AI models as a natural language gateway to connect to data sources and APIs, since these models are enormously powerful in understanding the nuance of language and expressing complexity. The generative ability lets generative AI model text into other forms. An example of this is using a language model to convert a text description, like "Find all users who have spent over $1000", to SQL code like, "SELECT \* FROM users WHERE purchase \> 1000". Developers are using this ability to connect to a variety of other tools from calculators to an Instacart's shopping list.

> Second, is the ability for generative AI models to identify relevant tasks to complete a goal. Early experiments have shown that generative AI models given a request can generate a plan with a list of tasks, and then start solving each task independently. A request could be a report analyzing the creditworthiness of a company. To build this report, a model would plan and generate tasks based on many factors such as the company's size, geographic location, and domain it operates. Once it identified its plan it could then analyze, summarize, and pull all the necessary information together and make a creditworthiness assessment. An analyst could then review the final report and access all the references to verify and augment the automated report. There are early applications, such as AutoGPT, that have shown promise in this goal oriented approach. Auto-GPT is an open source application that uses the GPT-4 to take a goal, break it into tasks, and then autonomously solve each task.

Reviewer: Can we mention Transformers Agents here?

Reviewer: made a suggestion

> Second, is the ability for generative AI models to identify relevant tasks to complete a goal. Early experiments have shown that generative AI models given a request can generate a plan with a list of tasks, and then start solving each task independently. A request could be a report analyzing the creditworthiness of a company. To build this report, a model would plan and generate tasks based on many factors such as the company's size, geographic location, and domain it operates. Once it identified its plan it could then analyze, summarize, and pull all the necessary information together and make a creditworthiness assessment. An analyst could then review the final report and access all the references to verify and augment the automated report. There are early applications, such as AutoGPT, that have shown promise in this goal oriented approach. Auto-GPT is an open source application that uses the GPT-4 to take a goal, break it into tasks, and then autonomously solve each task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, is the ability for generative AI models to identify relevant tasks to complete a goal. Early experiments have shown that generative AI models given a request can generate a plan with a list of tasks, and then start solving each task independently. A request could be a report analyzing the creditworthiness of a company. To build this report, a model would plan and generate tasks based on many factors such as the company's size, geographic location, and domain it operates. Once it identified its plan it could then analyze, summarize, and pull all the necessary information together and make a creditworthiness assessment. An analyst could then review the final report and access all the references to verify and augment the automated report. There are early applications, such as AutoGPT, that have shown promise in this goal oriented approach. More recently, the Transformers library released [Transformers Agents](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/v4.30.0/en/main_classes/agent), an open source API that can use any open source or closed source LLM to take a goal, break it into tasks, and then autonomously solve each task.
```

Finally, generative AI models are not only about automation. They also have the abiity to augment and improve existing processes and structures. [Sal Khan showed how](https://www.ted.com/talks/sal_khan_how_ai_could_save_not_destroy_education/c) Khan Academy is using OpenAI's GPT-4 generative model in a product called Khanmigo to help improve the learning process. Khanmigo was trained to push students to think more deeply, rather than just giving an answer. And if a student was stuck, Khanmigo provided gentle guidance to help the student. Khanmigo highlights just how we can use generative AI to improve the educational experience.

## Abundant AI Landscape

> The sudden appearance of OpenAI everywhere has led many to believe that they would dominate Generative AI. The thinking was that OpenAI's talent and ability to build cutting-edge models was a step beyond any other competitors. However, there is reason to doubt that line of thinking. First, AI talent has been distributed to a number of other companies (although a relatively small number of companies). We see models emerging from Google and Meta, along with startups like Anthropic rivaling OpenAI's models. Second, the amount and quality of open-source models is catching up. Hugging Face has developed Generative AI models like its multilingual BLOOM or code generation model StarCoder. We went from ChatGPT at the beginning of 2023, to a mix of over a dozen proprietary and open-source ChatGPT rivals by mid-2023.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sudden appearance of OpenAI everywhere has led many to believe that they would dominate Generative AI. The thinking was that OpenAI's talent and ability to build cutting-edge models was a step beyond any other competitors. However, there is reason to doubt that line of thinking. First, AI talent has been distributed to a number of other companies (although a relatively small number of companies). We see models emerging from Google and Meta, along with startups like Anthropic rivaling OpenAI's models. Second, the amount and quality of open-source models is catching up. Hugging Face has developed Generative AI models with the community, in the open, like [BigScience's multilingual BLOOM](https://huggingface.co/bigscience/bloom) LLM, or [BigCode's code generation model StarCoder](https://huggingface.co/bigcode/starcoder). We went from ChatGPT at the beginning of 2023, to now over 50 open-source alternative LLMs by mid-2023 (you can compare their performances on the [Open LLM Leaderboard](https://huggingface.co/spaces/HuggingFaceH4/open_llm_leaderboard)).
```

This diversity of generative AI models is valuable for enterprises and should be embraced.

The reasons for this are multiple: first off, a general language model won't understand the specifics of your business. It has not been trained on your proprietary data. Similar to solving an individual task, enterprises will prefer an AI model based on their enterprise data to solve their enterprises' tasks. Recently, Bloomberg [publicly shared their journey](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.17564) in building their own generative model based on their proprietary data. They use terabytes of their own data along with a 64 GPU cluster for several months to fully build their own model. Bloomberg felt the gains from having their own generative language model were worth being an early adopter in building their own model. Luckily, improvements in training using fine tuning are coming, so models can be built based around proprietary data in hours and days instead of months.

> Second, a diverse set of generative AI models provide a wider set of tradeoffs in their ability to solve tasks accurately, cheaply, and quickly. If your customers are using a chatbot to check balances on their account, is it necessary that they are using a chatbot that is capable of passing a medical licensing test? For some tasks, a smaller cheaper language model that provides acceptable performance could be a better solution than a state-of-the-art generative model. We are starting to see this emerge with language models that are experts in a particular domain, such as Google's MedPalm2 for healthcare, to lightning quick models that can run on small devices. This marketplace of AI models will allow enterprises to select the model most appropriate for their problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, a diverse set of generative AI models provide a wider set of tradeoffs in their ability to solve tasks accurately, cheaply, and quickly. If your customers are using a chatbot to check balances on their account, is it necessary that they are using a chatbot that is capable of passing a medical licensing test? For some tasks, a smaller cheaper language model that provides acceptable performance could be a better solution than a state-of-the-art generative model. We are starting to see this emerge with language models that are experts in a particular domain, such as Google's MedPalm2 for healthcare, to lightning quick models that can run on small devices. This marketplace of AI models will allow enterprises to select the model most appropriate for their problems. If you're curious about what hardware open source LLMs require to run, and how fast they can generate text, you can review the [Open LLM Performance Leaderboard](https://huggingface.co/spaces/optimum/llm-perf-leaderboard).
```

## Recommendations

It's an exciting time within this space. There are transformational impacts with generative AI models along with significant risks to consider. Our recommendations are the following:

> Generative AI will be revolutionary, but that does no't mean you need jump on the bandwagon at all costs. We have some breathing room in the near term. In fact, it can be very difficult for enterprises to move quickly across many use cases, and exploring the pros and cons of each one is important. The better strategy is not to be a first mover and wait for the second wave, where it's possible to take advantage of these technologies with a far lower risk and cost. Already in the last year, we have moved from a landscape of a single product to several different competitors. We expect many more competing products to emerge over the next few years. Given the high level of interest and investment into Generative AI, it's going to be a buyer's market for products and services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generative AI will be revolutionary, but that does not mean one needs to jump on the bandwagon at all costs. We have some breathing room in the near term. In fact, it can be very difficult for enterprises to move quickly across many use cases, and exploring the pros and cons of each one is important. The better strategy is not to be a first mover and wait for the second wave, where it's possible to take advantage of these technologies with a far lower risk and cost. Already in the last year, we have moved from a landscape of a single product to several different competitors. We expect many more competing products to emerge over the next few years. Given the high level of interest and investment into Generative AI, it's going to be a buyer's market for products and services.
```
